README.md, before:

**Setup**

The first thing to do is to run the [landoop/fast-data-dev](https://github.com/Landoop/fast-data-dev) Docker image. For example:

```
docker run --rm -it -p 2181:2181 -p 3030:3030 -p 8081:8081 -p 8082:8082 -p 8083:8083 -p 9092:9092 -p 9581:9581 -p 9582:9582 -p 9583:9583 -p 9584:9584 -e ADV_HOST=127.0.0.1 landoop/fast-data-dev:latest
```

_Note: Please follow the instructions on [fast-data-dev README](https://github.com/Landoop/fast-data-dev) to customize the container._

You can execute a bash shell at the running container as follow:

```
docker run --rm -it --net=host landoop/fast-data-dev bash
```

_Note: Kafka utilities are now available._

# Topics

You can create a new Kafka topic named `my-topic` as follows:

```
kafka-topics --create --zookeeper localhost:2181 --replication-factor 1 --partitions 3 --topic my-topic
```

You can verify that the `my-topic` topic was successfully created by listing all available topics:

```
kafka-topics --list --zookeeper localhost:2181
```

You can add more partitions as follows:

```
kafka-topics --zookeeper localhost:2181 --alter --topic my-topic --partitions 16
```

You can delete a topic named `my-topic` as follows:

```
kafka-topics --zookeeper localhost:2181 --delete --topic my-topic
```

You can find more details about a topic named `cc_payments` as follows:

```
kafka-topics --describe --zookeeper localhost:2181 --topic cc_payments
```

You can see the under-replicated partitions for all topics as follows:

```
kafka-topics --zookeeper localhost:2181/kafka-cluster --describe --under-replicated-partitions
```

Set the offset to a specific one

```
kafka-consumer-groups --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --group cpo_import_consumer --reset-offsets --topic c3po_cogon.dev_import_topic:0 --to-latest --execute
```

# Producers

You can produce messages from standard input as follows:

```
kafka-console-producer --broker-list localhost:9092 --topic my-topic
```

You can produce new messages from an existing file named `messages.txt` as follows:

```
kafka-console-producer --broker-list localhost:9092 --topic test < messages.txt
```

You can produce Avro messages as follows:

```
kafka-avro-console-producer --broker-list localhost:9092 --topic my.Topic --property value.schema='{"type":"record","name":"myrecord","fields":[{"name":"f1","type":"string"}]}' --property schema.registry.url=http://localhost:8081
```

You can enter a few new values from the console as follows:

```
{"f1": "value1"}
```

# Consumers

## Consume messages

You can begin a consumer from the beginning of the log as follows:

```
kafka-console-consumer --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --from-beginning --property print.key=true --topic my-topic
```

You can consume a single message as follows:

```
kafka-console-consumer --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --topic my-topic  --max-messages 1
```

You can consume a single message from `__consumer_offsets` as follows:

```
kafka-console-consumer --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --topic __consumer_offsets --formatter 'kafka.coordinator.GroupMetadataManager$OffsetsMessageFormatter' --max-messages 1
```

You can consume and specify a consumer group as follows:

```
kafka-console-consumer --topic my-topic --new-consumer --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --consumer-property group.id=my-group
```

Get all offset information for a group

```
kafka-consumer-groups --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --group GROUPNAME --describe
```

## Consume Avro messages

You can consume 10 Avro messages from a topic named `position-reports` as follows:

```
kafka-avro-console-consumer --topic position-reports --new-consumer --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --from-beginning --property schema.registry.url=localhost:8081 --max-messages 10
```

You can consume all existing Avro messages from a topic named `position-reports` as follows:

```
kafka-avro-console-consumer --topic position-reports --new-consumer --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --from-beginning --property schema.registry.url=localhost:8081
```

## Consumers admin operations

You can list all groups as follows:

```
kafka-consumer-groups --new-consumer --list --bootstrap-server localhost:9092
```

You can describe a Group named `testgroup` as follows:

```
kafka-consumer-groups --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --describe --group testgroup
```

# Config

You can set the retention for a topic as follows:

```
kafka-configs --zookeeper localhost:2181 --alter --entity-type topics --entity-name my-topic --add-config retention.ms=3600000
```

You can print all configuration overrides for a topic named `my-topic` as follows:

```
kafka-configs --zookeeper localhost:2181 --describe --entity-type topics --entity-name my-topic
```

You can delete a configuration override for `retention.ms` for a topic named `my-topic` as follows:

```
kafka-configs --zookeeper localhost:2181 --alter --entity-type topics --entity-name my-topic --delete-config retention.ms
```

# Performance

Although Kafka is pretty fast by design, it is good to be able to test its performance.
You can check the Produce performance of Kafka as follows:

```
kafka-producer-perf-test --topic position-reports --throughput 10000 --record-size 300 --num-records 20000 --producer-props bootstrap.servers="localhost:9092"
```

# ACLs

You can add a new _consumer_ ACL to an existing topic as follows:

```
kafka-acls --authorizer-properties zookeeper.connect=localhost:2181 --add --allow-principal User:Bob --consumer --topic topicA --group groupA
```

You can add a new _producer_ ACL to an existing topic as follows:

```
kafka-acls --authorizer-properties zookeeper.connect=localhost:2181 --add --allow-principal User:Bob --producer --topic topicA
```

You can list the ACLs of a topic named `topicA` as follows:

```
kafka-acls --authorizer-properties zookeeper.connect=localhost:2181 --list --topic topicA
```

# Zookeeper

You can enter the zookeeper shell as follows:

```
zookeeper-shell localhost:2182 ls
```

Commit message:

send key value from cli

README.md, after:

**Setup**

The first thing to do is to run the [landoop/fast-data-dev](https://github.com/Landoop/fast-data-dev) Docker image. For example:

```
docker run --rm -it -p 2181:2181 -p 3030:3030 -p 8081:8081 -p 8082:8082 -p 8083:8083 -p 9092:9092 -p 9581:9581 -p 9582:9582 -p 9583:9583 -p 9584:9584 -e ADV_HOST=127.0.0.1 landoop/fast-data-dev:latest
```

_Note: Please follow the instructions on [fast-data-dev README](https://github.com/Landoop/fast-data-dev) to customize the container._

You can execute a bash shell at the running container as follow:

```
docker run --rm -it --net=host landoop/fast-data-dev bash
```

_Note: Kafka utilities are now available._

# Topics

You can create a new Kafka topic named `my-topic` as follows:

```
kafka-topics --create --zookeeper localhost:2181 --replication-factor 1 --partitions 3 --topic my-topic
```

You can verify that the `my-topic` topic was successfully created by listing all available topics:

```
kafka-topics --list --zookeeper localhost:2181
```

You can add more partitions as follows:

```
kafka-topics --zookeeper localhost:2181 --alter --topic my-topic --partitions 16
```

You can delete a topic named `my-topic` as follows:

```
kafka-topics --zookeeper localhost:2181 --delete --topic my-topic
```

You can find more details about a topic named `cc_payments` as follows:

```
kafka-topics --describe --zookeeper localhost:2181 --topic cc_payments
```

You can see the under-replicated partitions for all topics as follows:

```
kafka-topics --zookeeper localhost:2181/kafka-cluster --describe --under-replicated-partitions
```

Set the offset to a specific one

```
kafka-consumer-groups --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --group cpo_import_consumer --reset-offsets --topic my_topic:0 --to-latest --execute
```

# Producers

You can produce messages from standard input as follows:

```
kafka-console-producer --broker-list localhost:9092 --topic my-topic
```

You can produce new messages from an existing file named `messages.txt` as follows:

```
kafka-console-producer --broker-list localhost:9092 --topic test < messages.txt
```

You can produce new json messages from a file as follows:

```
kafka-console-producer --broker-list localhost:9092 --topic topic-name --property "parse.key=true" --property "key.separator=:" < message.txt
```

and in the `message.txt` something like this:

```
89f444c4-7322-44b2-b5a9-6fb080ce7456:{ someJson:{} }
```

You can produce Avro messages as follows:

```
kafka-avro-console-producer --broker-list localhost:9092 --topic my.Topic --property value.schema='{"type":"record","name":"myrecord","fields":[{"name":"f1","type":"string"}]}' --property schema.registry.url=http://localhost:8081
```

You can enter a few new values from the console as follows:

```
{"f1": "value1"}
```

# Consumers

## Consume messages

You can begin a consumer from the beginning of the log as follows:

```
kafka-console-consumer --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --from-beginning --property print.key=true --topic my-topic
```

You can consume a single message as follows:

```
kafka-console-consumer --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --topic my-topic  --max-messages 1
```

You can consume a single message from `__consumer_offsets` as follows:

```
kafka-console-consumer --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --topic __consumer_offsets --formatter 'kafka.coordinator.GroupMetadataManager$OffsetsMessageFormatter' --max-messages 1
```

You can consume and specify a consumer group as follows:

```
kafka-console-consumer --topic my-topic --new-consumer --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --consumer-property group.id=my-group
```

Get all offset information for a group

```
kafka-consumer-groups --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --group GROUPNAME --describe
```

## Consume Avro messages

You can consume 10 Avro messages from a topic named `position-reports` as follows:

```
kafka-avro-console-consumer --topic position-reports --new-consumer --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --from-beginning --property schema.registry.url=localhost:8081 --max-messages 10
```

You can consume all existing Avro messages from a topic named `position-reports` as follows:

```
kafka-avro-console-consumer --topic position-reports --new-consumer --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --from-beginning --property schema.registry.url=localhost:8081
```

## Consumers admin operations

You can list all groups as follows:

```
kafka-consumer-groups --new-consumer --list --bootstrap-server localhost:9092
```

You can describe a Group named `testgroup` as follows:

```
kafka-consumer-groups --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --describe --group testgroup
```

# Config

You can set the retention for a topic as follows:

```
kafka-configs --zookeeper localhost:2181 --alter --entity-type topics --entity-name my-topic --add-config retention.ms=3600000
```

You can print all configuration overrides for a topic named `my-topic` as follows:

```
kafka-configs --zookeeper localhost:2181 --describe --entity-type topics --entity-name my-topic
```

You can delete a configuration override for `retention.ms` for a topic named `my-topic` as follows:

```
kafka-configs --zookeeper localhost:2181 --alter --entity-type topics --entity-name my-topic --delete-config retention.ms
```

# Performance

Although Kafka is pretty fast by design, it is good to be able to test its performance.
You can check the Produce performance of Kafka as follows:

```
kafka-producer-perf-test --topic position-reports --throughput 10000 --record-size 300 --num-records 20000 --producer-props bootstrap.servers="localhost:9092"
```

# ACLs

You can add a new _consumer_ ACL to an existing topic as follows:

```
kafka-acls --authorizer-properties zookeeper.connect=localhost:2181 --add --allow-principal User:Bob --consumer --topic topicA --group groupA
```

You can add a new _producer_ ACL to an existing topic as follows:

```
kafka-acls --authorizer-properties zookeeper.connect=localhost:2181 --add --allow-principal User:Bob --producer --topic topicA
```

You can list the ACLs of a topic named `topicA` as follows:

```
kafka-acls --authorizer-properties zookeeper.connect=localhost:2181 --list --topic topicA
```

# Zookeeper

You can enter the zookeeper shell as follows:

```
zookeeper-shell localhost:2182 ls
```
